CS122 Lab 2 

Part A, due at the end of the lab period

Short Answers, 3 points each

1. Review the format for dates in SQL, then express the date "1979-10-11" in words.  For example, two correctly formatted 
but wrong answers would be "the Fourth of July, 1900" and "December Twenty-Fifth, 2000."

2. Express the date March 13, 2014 in SQL format.  Don't forget the quotes.

3. What is the primary key of the Members table?

4. Why isn't LastName a possible primary key for the Members table?

5. What is the primary key of the Tracks table?  Why?

6. Why is the primary key described in your answer to the last question the only possible primary key for the table?
 
7.  The Members table contains a foreign key.  Which field is it, and which to which table is it a foreign key?

8. What is the foreign key in the Tracks table that references the Titles table?  How do we know that this field will
match each track with exactly one title?

9. Why do we need three separate tables to match members to artists?  Note the difference between this question 
and the related question in lab 1.

10. Consider how the relationship between members and artists differs from the relationship between tracks and 
titles.  Why don't we need a third table to match tracks and titles?
   
11. Could we add a new record to the salespeople table with the following information? If not, why not?
	SalesID = 5 FirstName = "Bob" LastName = "Bentley" Initials = "bbb" Base = 100 Supervisor = 4

12. Could we add a new record to the salespeople table with the following information? If not, why not?
	SalesID = 3 FirstName = "Liz" LastName = "Montbatten" Initials = "ewm" Base = 100 Supervisor = 4

13. Consider this SQL query:
	SELECT (NULL IS NOT NULL) != (NULL = TRUE);
Why does this query return NULL?  Answer with either a few sentences or a simplified proof.


SQL To English, 4 points each

State in English what the SQL query does.  Do not use any database lingo; instead, explain what the query does in language anyone could understand.
Example: "Find the last name of each member located in New York"		

14. SELECT LastName, Base FROM Salespeople;
 
15. SELECT * FROM Tracks ORDER BY TrackTitle DESC;

16. SELECT FirstName from Members WHERE FirstName > "Bryce";

17. SELECT ArtistName FROM Artists WHERE WebAddress IS NULL;
Consider carefully what a NULL value in a field represents.


Part B
See CSNS for due date

English To SQL, 9 points each

Write SQL queries to do each of the following tasks.  Do not turn in the output, just the queries.  TEST your work before you turn it in.  
A typical answer would be similar to a question from section I.

1. List the last names and memberIDs of all members who are assigned to salesperson #2.

2. List the names of all jazz titles.

3. List the names of all titles that are NOT in the alternative genre.

4. Show each region in which there is at least one member.  List each region only once.

5. Show each region in which there is at least one female member.  List each of these
regions only once each.
  
  